Route53 Routing Policies Avaliable on AWS:
1. Simple Routing
If you choose the simple routing policy you can only have one record with multiple IP addresses. If you specify multiple values in a record, Route 53 returns all values to the user in a random order.
2. Weighted Routing
Allows you split your traffic based on different weights assigned.
3. Latency-based Routing
Allows you to route your traffic based on the lowest network latency for your end user(ie which region will give them the fastest response time)
4. Failover Routing
Failover Routing policies are used when you want to create an active passive set up. For example,you may want your primary site to be in EU-WEST-2 and your secondary DR Site in AP-SOUTHEAST-2.
5. Geolocation Routing
Geolocation routing lets you choose where your traffic will be sent based on the geographic location of your users(ie the location from which DNS queries originate).
6. Geoproximity Routing(Traffic Flow Only)
Geoproximity routing lets Amazon Route53 route traffic to your resources based on the geographic location of your users and your resources. You can also optionally choose to route more traffic or less to a given resource by specifying a value,known as a bias. A bias expands or shrinks the size of the geographic region from which traffic is routed to a resource.
To use geoproximity routing, you must use Route 53 traffic flow.
7. Multivalue Answer Routing
Multivalue answer routing lets you configure Amazon Route 53 to return multiple values, such as IP addresses for your web servers, in response to DNS queries. You can specify multiple values for almost any record, but multivalue answer routing also lets you check the health of each resource,so Route 53 returns only values for healthy resources.
This is similar to simple routing however it allows you to put health checks on each record set.

Health Checks
1. You can set health checks on individual record sets.
2. If a record set fails a health check it will be removed from Route53 until it passed the health check.
3. You can set SNS notifications to alert you if a health check is failed.