S3 Basics:
1.S3 is Object-based
2.Files can be from 0 Bytes to 5TB
3.There is unlimited storage
4.Files are stored in Buckets

S3 Object Include:
1. Key(The name of the object)
2. Value(The data of the object)
3. Version ID (Important for versioning)
4. Metadata (Data about data you are storing)
5. Subresources (1)Access Control Lists (2) Torrent

S3 Consistency:
1.Read after Write consistency for PUTS of new Objects
2.Eventual Consistency for oversrite PUTS and DELETES(can take some time to propagate)

S3 Features:
1. Tiered Storage Available
2. Lifecycle Management
3. Versioning
4. Encryption
5. MFA Delete
6. Secure your data using Access Control Lists and Bucket Policies

S3 Storage Classes
1. S3 Standard:99.99% availability, 99.999999999% durability
2. S3-IA(Infrequently Accessed): Lower fee than S3, but are charged a retrieval fee
3. S3 One Zone- IA (do not require the multiple availability zone data resilience)
4. S3 - Intelligent Tiering (optimize costs)
5. S3 Glacier(retrieval times configurable from minutes to hours)
6. S3 Glacier Deep Archive (retrieval time of 12 hours is acceptable) lowest cost

Exam tips:
1. S3 is a universal namespace. That is,names must be unique globally
2. Not suitable to install an operating system on
3. Successful uploads will generate a HTTP 200 status code
4. You can turn on MFA Delete

S3 Encryption:
Encryption in transit in achieved by: SSL/TLS
Encryption at rest(server side) is achieved by:
(1) S3 Managed Keys-SSE-S3
(2) AWS Key Management Service, Managed Keys - SSE-KMS
(3) Server Side Encryption With Customer Provided Keys - SSE-C
Client Side Encryption

S3 Version Control
If enable the version of the bucket, the action delete will also be a new version of the object.
1. Stores all versions of an object (including all writes and even if you delete and object)
2. Great backup tool
3. Once enabled, Versioning cannot be disabled, only suspended
4. Integrates with Lifecycle rules
5. Versioning has MFA Delete capability

S3 Lifecycle Management
Automates moving your objects between the different storage tiers.
Can be used in conjunction with versioning
Can be applied to current versions and previous versions.

S3 Cross Region Replication
1. Versioning must be enabled on both the source and destination buckets
2. Regions must be unique
3. Files in an existing bucket are not replicated automatically
4. All subsequent updated files will be replicated automatically
5. Delete markers are not replicated
6. Delete individual versions or delete markers will not be replicated

S3 Transfer Acceleration
Utilises the CloudFront Edge Network to accelerate your uploads to S3.
Instead of uploading directly to your S3 bucket, you can use a distinct URL to upload directly to an edge location which will then transfer that file to S3.