EC2: Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud is a web service that provides resizable compute capacity in the cloud.

EC2 Pricing Models:
1. On Demand: Allows you to pay a fixed rate by the hour (or by the second) with no commitment.
2. Reserved: Provides you with a capacity reservation, and offer a significant discount on the hourly charge for an instance. Contract Terms are 1 year or 3 year terms.
3. Spot: Enables you to bid whatever price you want for instance capacity, providing for even greater savings if your applications have flexible start and end times.
4. Dedicated Hosts: Physical EC2 server dedicated for your use. Dedicated Hosts can help you reduce costs by allowing you ro use your existing server-bound software licenses.

For windows user login in to EC2:
Use google chrome, extension ssh chrome extension
Go to cmd: ssh-keygen -y -f key.pem > key.pub
Change the name of key.pem to key

Exam tips:
1. Termination Protection is turned off by default, you ust turn it on.
2. On an EBS-backed instance, the default action is for the root EBS volume to be deleted when the instance is terminated.
3. EBS Root Volumes of your DEFAULT AMI's cannot be encrypted. You can also use a third party tool (such as bit locker etc) to encrypt the root volume, or this can be done when creating AMI's in the AWS console or using the API.
4. Additional volumes can be encrypted.

EC2 Security Groups
1. Assign more than one security groups for ec2 instance: Actions->Networking->Change Security Groups

Exam tips:
1. All Inbound traffic is blocked by default
2. All Outbound traffic is allowed
3. Changes to Security Groups take effect immediately
4. You can have any number of EC2 instances within a security group
5. You can have multiple security groups attached to EC2 Instances
6. Security Groups are stateful
7. If you create an inbound rule allowing traffic in, that traffic is automatically allowed back out again
8. You cannot block specific IP addresses using Security Groups, instead use Network Access Control Lists.
9. You can specify allow rules, but not deny rules.