EBS (Amazon Elastic Block Store)
It provides persistent block storage volumes for use with Amazon EC2instances in the AWS Cloud.
Each Amazon EBS volume is automatically replicated within its availability zone to protect you from component failure, offering high availability and durability.

5 Different Types of EBS Storage:
1. General Purpose(SSD)
2. Provisioned IOPS(SSD)
3. Throughput Optimised Hard Disk Drive
4. Cold Hard Disk Drive
5. Magnetic

Move a volumes to another availability zone:
1. Choose the volumes
2. Create a snapshot of the volumes
3. Create a image from the snapshot
4. Use the image to create another instance and select the availability zone
Copy AMI can change the region of the volume

Exam tips:
1. Volumes exist on EBS. Think of EBS as a virtual hard disk.
2. Snapshots exist on S3. Think of snapshots as a photograph of the disk.
3. Snapshots are point in time copies of Volumes.
4. Snapshots are incremental - this means that only the blocks that have changed since your last snapshot are moved to S3.
5. If this is your first snapshot, it may take some time to create.
6. To create a snapshot for Amazon EBS volumes that serve as root devices, you should stop the instance before taking the snapshot.
7. However you can take a snap while the instance is running.
8. You can create AMI's(Amazon Machine Images) from both Volumes and Snapshots.
9. You can change EBS volume sizes on the fly,including changing the size and storage type.
10. Volumes will ALWAYS be in the same availability zone as the EC2 instance.
11. To move an EC2 volume from on AZ to another, take a snapshot of it, create an AMI from the snapshot and then use the AMI to launch the EC2 instance in a new AZ.
12. To move an EC2 volume from one region to another, take a snapshot of it, create an AMI from the snapshot and then copy the AMI from one region to the other.Then use the copied AMI to launch the new EC2 instance in the new region.

AMI types(EBS VS INSTANCE STORE)
1. Instance Store Volumes are sometimes called Ephemeral Storage
2. Instance store columes cannot be stopped. If the underlying host fails, you will lose your data.
3. EBS backed instances can be stopped. You will not lose the data on this instance if it is stopped.
4. You can reboot both, you will not lose your data.
5. By default, both ROOT volumes will be deleted on termination. However,with EBS volumes, you can tell AWS to keep the root device volume.